---
title: "Decentralizing Private Blockchain-IoT Network with OLSR"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2021-06-FI-OLSR
# excerpt: ''
date: 2021-06-28
venue: 'MDPI Future Internet'
link: 'https://www.mdpi.com/1999-5903/13/7/168'
paperurl: 'http://chenxuan.space/files/2021-06-FI-OLSR.pdf'
# slidesurl: ''
citation: '<strong>X. Chen</strong>, S. Tian, K. Nguyen and H. Sekiya, "Decentralizing Private Blockchain-IoT Network with OLSR," in Future Internet, vol. 13, no. 7, 168, 28 Jun., 2021.'
share: false
---

With data transparency and immutability, the blockchain can provide trustless and decentralized services for Internet of Things (IoT) applications. However, most blockchain-IoT networks, especially those with a private blockchain, are built on top of an infrastructure-based wireless network (i.e., using Wi-Fi access points or cellular base stations). Hence, they are still under the risk of Single-Point-of-Failure (SPoF) on the network layer, hindering the decentralization merit, for example, when the access points or base stations get failures. This paper presents an Optimized Link State Routing (OLSR) protocol-based solution for that issue in a private blockchain-IoT application. By decentralizing the underlying network with OLSR, the private blockchain network can avoid SPoF and automatically recover after a failure. Single blockchain connections can be extended to multiple ad hoc hops. Services over blockchain become flexible to fit various IoT scenarios. We show the effectiveness of our solution by constructing a private Ethereum blockchain network running on IoT devices (i.e., Raspberry Pi model 4) with environmental data sensing (i.e., Particular Matter (PM)). The IoT devices use OLSR to form an ad hoc network. The environment data are collected and propagated in transactions to a pre-loaded smart contract periodically. We then evaluate the IoT blockchain network’s recovery time when facing a link error. The evaluation results show that OLSR can automatically recover after the failure. We also evaluate the transaction-oriented latency and block-oriented latency, which indicates the blocks have a high transmission quality, while transactions are transferred individually.